# Getting Used to the Distributed Work Style

At a distributed company, all communications need to be deliberate. No one is going to peek over your cubicle wall and notice that you're looking stressed. If you're having a hard time, please communicate it. We have multiple systems in place to help. We also have a super-friendly, knowledgeable, and non-judgmental team who enjoy sharing their wisdom and experience.

We know there's a lot to learn and figure out during your first few months. We know you're probably going to feel a little lost and overwhelmed initially. You'll probably be struggling to get your laptop and new apps set up and working. You'll probably struggle with getting Hangouts working with the right account. You'll probably have a hard time remembering to send your 5:15 reports and what to say, organizing DropBox, getting email working, etc.

Starting at Osio Labs is not the same as starting at a cubicle job where your computer, phone, desk, and chair are sitting ready for you when you arrive on your first day. We realize that the distributed lifestyle and tools are a bit of an adjustment for many people. On the other hand, you'll be able to create your own workspace and choose the tools that really work for you. You'll own your computer and you can deck it out however you like, and when you get stuck trying to figure out any of this stuff, there's a whole team of people just itching to help you—and they're just a Hangout, a Slack ping, email, or phone call away.

If working distributed is new for you, we find that different people are challenged in different ways. Some people miss having co-workers to just chat with all day long, while others struggle with figuring out a schedule that works with the team's time zones. Some people struggle with keeping their personal and work lives separated so they can focus on what's important at the appropriate time. Having challenges while adjusting is totally normal and something that everyone on the team has gone through in one way or the other. We've also worked through a lot of these scenarios. You should feel free to share your challenges and ask for advice from the team.

All that said, it's pretty awesome to be able to roll out of bed and work in your PJs.  Our flexible schedules also allow you to take care of life without work necessarily getting in the way. Things like doctor's appointments, your kid's school play, or the furnace suddenly dying can all be handled as part of your normal day. You can also feel free to take off and work from a cafe or park if you need a change of scenery. Sometimes the positives also feel a little weird if you're not used to them. Again, feel free to ask any questions about your work day.

## A Note on Location for U.S. Citizens
Our distributed nature gives you lots of flexibility for traveling and choosing where you live. If you want to travel the world, we fully support that, but you need to be aware of certain restrictions that could affect your employment status. Our U.S. employment provider Insperity's travel policy states, "In order for Insperity to continue to co-employ an employee who travels internationally for an extended time, the employee’s international travel cannot exceed 120 days to one country in a rolling 12-month period." This is to protect both Insperity and Osio Labs from becoming subject to tax and labor laws of other countries, which we are not qualified or prepared to do. 

If you are a U.S. citizen and you're thinking of moving abroad for a period longer than 120 days in any country other than Denmark, you should be aware that we will most likely not be able to continue to employ you. While we would love to make all your worldly dreams come true in that regard, the IRS in the United States has cracked down severely on U.S. companies with contractors in other countries. Because the risk of contract audit is so high in the U.S., Osio Labs would have to pay a substantial amount of money every year to set up a foreign business entity and make you an official employee in another country. Since long-term or permanent employment abroad is not simple, please contact the CEO to discuss options about keeping your job before selling the farm.

---
[Next page](02first_week.md)  
[Previous page](../02welcome)  
[Table of Contents](../README.md#table-of-contents)
